# by Anthony Doerr

RATING: 6/5 stars

### In short
This book might just be my new favorite book (as of May 2023.). The story is about Mary-Laure Leblanc, a young blind French girl and a German soldier and engineer Werner Pfennig and their story through WWII. The characters are simply beautifully portrayed, with their whole lives explained and their personalities. Other supporting characters add some different perspectives to the book. There is not much plot, but the whole character development just make up for it. The prose is delicate and gorgeous, the characters raw and honest, they really seem like real people! All in all a beautiful book, with vivid representation of WWII, and a heartbreaking end (I was literally sobbing for half an hour). 

### Marie-Laure Leblanc
She lived with her father in Paris, and her father was a locksmith. He would design amazing locks and puzzles to guard the possessions of the natural science history museum in Paris. Marie loved visiting the museum and learning all she could about the sea and its animals. Even though she was blind, she wanted and loved reading, her favorite book being 20 leagues under the sea. The book retains a special bond with Marie throughout the book, and it is her reading it which saved Werner from dying in a collapsed bunker. She was very brave, loved nature, was quite independent and worried terribly for her father. She waited years upon years for him to return, only to find out he was dead. I loved how strong she was for her great uncle and for herself during the war, and how she helped in a war effort to stop the Germans. She survived the war and became a respected scientist. 

### Werner Pfennig
Werner's story was depressing beyond belief. His father died in a coal mine when he was young, and he never knew who his mother was. He lived with his sister in an orphanage at a coal mine, and he was sentenced to work there as soon as he turned 15. He was petrified, and did not want to at any cost. He once found a small radio, broken to bits, but he managed to fix it. Since then, he was enthralled with physics and science, and with his amazing talent recognized by the rich, they applied him to a super prestigious school. To say the least, he hated it there. He did not believe in Nazism, and he thought the way they treated other people was inhumane and cruel. His best friend was tormented and bullied because he was kind and did not want to harm people. He was beaten up once so badly his skull cracked and he retained no memory and no motor function other than to stay alive. He was walking dead. Werner was broken at the school, and he was sent 2 years early to the army where he found radios and his crew destroyed their homes and killed them. He had more trauma than any other character in the book, and he hated everything. He got the flu, and had it for probably a year before he just couldn't take it anymore. When he came to Marie's town, his job was to find her radio, but he couldn't betray them. And once the americans came and they bombed the hotel they were staying at, Werner was trapped in the basement with a few other people. All of them died but him and his good friend. Upon hearing Marie's voice reading 20 leagues under the sea, he decided he wanted to live, and he and his friend broke out of the prison. Werner went and rescued Marie's life from a German general who wanted a diamond she had. He fell in love with her, giving her safety to the americans but leaving himself for fear of desertation. He became overly ill, and he died when he steped on a mine in the outskirts of a makeshift hospital. 

Werner's story was moving because he never wanted to be part of the army, he just loved science. 

