TAGS: #book #fantasy #Permanent_note 
LINKS:

This duology follows a gang of 6 teenagers from 16 to 18 who go on the most dangerous mission of all time to break into the notorious Ice Court and retrieve an asset which might cause the end of the world. In the second book they are crossed over from the deal they forged with their employer and fight for their life and the safety of the asset. Along the way they explore secrets about themselves, outsmart all of their enemies and emerge victorious and rich. Perhaps a few kisses were involved too. Maybe.

Even though these books are fantasy books, they offer a lot to the reader. Each character is unique in their own way but it brings insight and uniqueness to every situation. It teaches us more forms of love, friendship, loyalty, etc. It is not the black and white picture that is often represented in many books. 

### Kaz Brekker

Kaz is Dirtyhands. The most notorious criminal in the Barrel. A thug really. He is feared by everyone, considered to be merciless, cold and a horrible person. However in my opinion, he is my favorite character because of the fact that he has so many underlying complexities and in reality is one of the nicest people in the book. Certainly nicer than all the other "barrel kings and thugs". Because of his traumatic past and the loss of his brother because of Pekka Rollins, a criminal who tore money away from unsuspecting kids he is a bit broken and has walls around himself. He wears gloves every day and cannot bear the touch of skin to skin (hapheophobia or chirophobia) because he used his brother's corpse to swim to shore and cannot bear touching anyone else again. The severe damage of this traumatic past is enough to break most people or turn them into horrendous people but Kaz was not horrible. Yes, he did kill a lot of people. Yes he did steal. Yes he comitted crimes. And while most people would immediatley characterize this as being a horrible person, label him and be done there is more to the story. He never hurt women. He never hurt innocent people. He never stole from ordinary people who did not do something wrong also. He never killed someone if not for a greater cause or for protecting himself or the people he loved. He saved Inej from a pleasure house. After the whole endevaour of the books he vowed to help Inej battle slave sellers. He wants to make a positive difference in the world. He got rid of the worst bastards in the slum and in the richer world. He brings demise and destruction only to the people who have ruined his life (killing his brother and making him become a criminal) or those who have harmed his love or close friends (Van Eck). He loved his gang and he loved Inej. Their romance was the weirdest romance I have ever read about because it was so different. Because of his hapheophobia he could not kiss Inej or touch her (although he did kiss her neck once and then recoiled from the touch, **but he tried**). He literaly sold everything he had to free her from any contracts or indentures, so she could really be free. As a famous quote once said

> Actions speak louder than words.

He bought her a boat to kill of slavers. He brought her parents home. He saved her from a pleasure house so she didn't have to hate herself forever. He ruined the pleasure house's reputation for her. He saved her life time and time again. He saved her from capture. If that isn't enough I don't know what is. I know what its like when Kaz cannot say thank you or a nice word or has armour and cannot be the guy every girl wants. But very very few guys do what he does. Very few of them actually show their love in a way that is meaningful. Very few of them have actions which speak louder than words. They loved each other without the drive that most other people do. They thought each one was good-looking obviously but they loved each other's character and what they did for each other. Kaz couldn't bear his childhood because it was so horrible. Anyone would have walls. If they even survived. Its extremely difficult to let go of past trauma. But we can see how much he is trying for Inej. When he bought her a boat, he wore no gloves. *He held her hand.* That was the most beautiful part of the book. When he gave everything he had to make Inej happy. To see her smile. When he broke down a part of his wall. Now he couldn't break down everything in one night. It would probably take years for him to fully recover. But, aren't years better than never having to break down from them at all?

Other than Inej he loved his crew. Although he never said it, he did everything to protect them and to make sure that they each got their reward. He cared for everyone, even though his methods were sometimes a bit cruel, he knew what had to be done. He was the only one who was willing to tell terrible truths rather than kind lies. That takes a lot of guts. Not many people have them.

So, Kaz was the most complex character I have actually ever read about, and that is why i love him so much. Especially in the show adaption, the casting was perfect (Freddy Carter <3). The other characters were really good, however not as complex. We don't know much about Inej, a bit of her past, her traumas, her love for Kaz. I loved how she forgave herself for everything she did because she realised it wasn't black and white. I loved Wylan and his realization to focus on the things he is good at and not let other people push him down like his father did. I loved Jesper's energy and his battle with his own inner deamons. How he never thought he had them until Wylan told him. The two of them really make a good couple. I loved Nina and her sacrifice to save everyone. Even if it ruined her a little bit. Even though she could die. She still did it because she loved her crew. Matthias was the second most complex character. He had a tough past also, but after meeting Nina his whole life was upside down and he had to let go of everything he believed in and betrayed his country which got him killed in the end. By complexity, I would rank the characters
1. Kaz
2. Matthias
3. Jesper
4. Inej
5. Wylan
6. Nina

I would say the whole point of the books was to introduce the reader to the harsh world that is out there. To show them how some things work, how to think smartly and backup you own plans. How to trick your enemies and always be careful. 
But the better part was to show that the world is extremely gray. That even a character as Kaz, who is thought of as the worst is actually the kindest and most thoughtful. That we shouldn't be quick to judge other people because of how they seem or what they say. We should really look into them before we make judgements. Because as i said: Actions speak louder than words. It shows us different friendships, ways of love and ways of thinking. It shows us how wonderfully diverse the world is. How we should always look for the good in people. 