## Tips from a random YouTube comments
1. Habits: Focusing on doing things that make me feel good, not doing things because „I have to do them“. So for example, I do stretches in the morning because I know it will make me feel better throughout the day. I meditate at night because it makes me sleepy and helps me fall asleep faster. I journal because it helps my anxiety. I practice Gratitude (with a Gratitude Journal) because it puts me in a better mood right away, I go for a walk because it makes my body feel better and helps me relax, I eat a healthy meal because my stomach feels better afterward. I also don’t track my habits, but just focus on how I feel that day. If I don’t want to do it, I don’t have to. This way it doesn’t feel like a chore or a to-do but rather like self-care. It changed my mindset from viewing these habits as work to viewing them as time I take for myself and actually enjoy. 
2. Work: I do 3 things. Firstly, as Elizabeth also said, I don’t look at how much I achieve in one day, but rather look at longer periods of time. If I write 1 page per day of something, I might feel dissatisfied, but If I write 1 page a day for a month, I have around 30 pages at the end. If I take a rest day or two, I don’t have to beat myself up for it, because one doesn’t really matter in the long run. I also try to give myself more time for things in general, and if I can’t finish something in time, I just have to rearrange some things and prioritize. This might be scary at first, especially if we think our livelihood or degree is dependent on it, but I try to view it optimistically - I trust myself to be able to work it out some way or another (this is especially aided by practicing Gratitude - it makes me more optimistic in general). This way, I make sure I prioritize my mental (and in turn physical) health over work and reduce stress. Secondly, I try to focus on doing a few things or even just one small thing a day, instead of doing a lot of big things on a few days - I find that in sum, I do more if I do less daily, and I avoid burn out because I have time to relax every day. There are exceptions for this, of course, like the day before an exam for example, but I know that is temporary, and keep crunch periods as short as possible. I schedule personal/relaxation time immediately afterward. Thirdly, I have learned how important it is to have completely free days, where I can do what I want. I try to use this time mindfully, meaning I don’t just scroll on my phone all day (although I do some of that too!), but I also practice actual hobbies like reading a fun book, doing something creative, playing video games, seeing friends or family, etc. This way I don’t feel like I have „wasted“ the whole day, but I actually used it to focus on myself. This is also much easier if I do the things mentioned above because I don’t feel too burned out to do anything else but lie in bed. 
3. Mental health: I wrote down a list of things that I thought would improve my mental and physical health, and I tried to implement them over a longer period of time. I wasn't a perfectionist about them, and I gave myself a lot of grace. This really helps with self-hatred. I also focused on enjoyment in my daily life, which meant that I listened to music I really loved, I read books I knew I would really enjoy, I watched movies that were actually good, not just mindless entertainment, I talked to friends I actually liked, etc. This really improved my mood and gave me more energy to do "productive" things. If you struggle with a negative self-image, I suggest looking up how to change your core beliefs, this also helped with all of this

My current to-do list method is gamifying it. Achievements, Side Quests and Daily Challenges. Achievements are significant things I want to get done, side quests are usually easy but non-essential unique tasks, and daily challenges are simple chores that I have been struggling with. I also frame each task as if it's part of a game. Might be helpful for other people who grew up on video games and want to take their life in a more productive direction.

